MATPMDA portfolio rubric

The document should be prepared using Rmarkdown format.  I am not
looking for formal scholarly writing, but the wording should be clear
and unambiguous.  There will be an individual five-minute conversation
discussing the portfolio which is your chance to demonstrate your work
to me.

The canvas submission should include four files:

1.  The Rmd file
2.  The dataset in tab-separated txt format
3.  A jpeg file illustrating the origin of the dataset
4.  The compiled PDF as produced by "knit"

Introduction

Brief description of the dataset used; details of its origin, and why
it is important to you.  Good portfolios show the first five or six
lines of their datasets, to give readers an understanding of the
variables used and the extent of the data. 


Methods and results

A good portfolio will include all of the following:

* A range of data visualisations (histogram, scattergraph, etc)
* t-test
* Linear regression
* Fisher's exact test

For the statistical tests, the test should be appropriate to the
aspect of the dataset considered.  State your null and alternative
hypotheses clearly: these should be meaningful in context.  Use of
one-sided or two-sided tests should be appropriate and justified.
P-values should be given and interpreted both statistically and in the
context of the data.


Conclusions

A conclusions section covers things like what aspects of the analysis
were most surprising or unexpected.  What have you learned about your
data?  General comments such as how a statistical mindset has helped
you understand your dataset are also good here.  There should be
nothing in the conclusions that is not supported by the main body of
your portfolio.


Spoken component

The spoken component will be held via a Teams meeting at a time to be
arranged.  

Schedule: representative comments (merit and distinction grades also
require attributes of pass and merit respectively).

Fail: dataset does not meet brief.  Visualisations absent or
  uninformative with poor interpretation.  Techniques used with little
  understanding or motivation.  Interpretation absent or incorrect.
  Regression presented with no scattergraph.  Conclusions not
  justified.  Conversation shows little familiarity with dataset or
  structure of portfolio; and flawed understanding of statistical
  analysis presented.

Pass: dataset meets brief.  Analyses correct but given in unclear or
  unmotivated order.  Appropriate picture included.  First 5 lines of
  data given.  Lapses in application [e.g. applying discrete
  techniques to non-count data].  Conclusions sketchy or weak, and
  lack impact.  Conversation shows some familiarity with dataset and
  analyses used.

Merit: Analyses correct.  Only occasional lapses in application of
  statistical tests.  Submission includes consistent interpretations.
  Nulls motivated well and correctly stated.  Visualisations
  informative.  Repeated analyses minimal.  Interpretation clear and
  correct.

Distinction: The chosen dataset is simultaneously amenable to
  analysis, and exhibits imaginative interpretation of the phrase
  "day-to-day life".  A structured, engaging sequence of
  visualisations, and correctly applied statistical analyses.
  Conclusions clear, incisive, and supported by the text.
  Conversation reveals in-depth familiarity with dataset,
  visualisations and statistical analysis used.  For a high
  distinction: succinct and apposite critical evaluation of the
  techniques used and/or relevant foundational issues [e.g. the
  frequentist paradigm itself]
